do you think grammar is just a lot of
boring rules
well think again my friend think
differently because learning english
grammar can be easy and fun
if you think about it correctly let me
help you
change your thinking
[Music]
hi nice to see you again oh and if
you're new my name's keith i run the
website the keith speaking academy and
the youtube channel um english speaking
success
so listen in this fun lesson i'm going
to make grammar easy for you
i'm going to do this first with a short
story an anecdote and then we'll do a
review of the most important parts of
speech including verbs nouns
prepositions adjectives and many many
more
in the end there's a little quiz
to help you review and have a bit of fun
and also don't forget to click the link
below and you can download the pdf
of this lesson
finally if you want to practice your
spoken grammar with a native english
speaker then check out camberly
this is a fantastic platform where you
can find native english speaking
teachers
and improve your speaking skills the
great thing is the teachers come from
lots of backgrounds so you have ielts
and truffle trainers you also have
teachers who have a background in
business filmmaking music even
journalism so you can find somebody to
match your needs
more about that later let's get into it
and start making grammar
easy
i think language is like music
you listen to music and you hear
beautiful sounds you listen to a
language and i hear beautiful sounds
[Music]
with music you have
different names for the notes and the
order they go in
with language you have different names
for the words and the order they go in
and that's it grammar
just describes the language
it's not the actual language
it's just a way of talking about it
now maybe you started to get nervous
about grammar at school when your
teacher began to introduce some names
and labels for things like
the present perfect subjunctive the
possessive determiners the predicate
and then suddenly lots of rules and then
exceptions
and then at the end of the day you felt
that grammar was the same as
headache
and that's very very common you see i
think we need to change things
i think we should start by listening to
the language
loving it and then repeating it
not
starting with the grammar
talking about it
so when learning english i suggest you
listen
you love it
and then you repeat it
and let me tell you a little anecdote
right this is when i was younger i was a
teenager and i began learning to play
the piano
i did it on my own i had a little
keyboard something probably
something like this
yep
of course those days we didn't have apps
but we had something similar
and so i was at home and i was playing
and i was you know practicing teaching
myself
and then after a few weeks
um my friend came along and he's a
musician he played the guitar um and he
said what are you learning so i showed
him like
[Music]
and he said great that's a scale in c
major and i was like a what a scale in c
major
and he said yes i thought that's
interesting and then i played i played
him something i'd learnt
and he said oh an arpeggio
i had no idea and then
[Music]
[Applause]
oh
a blues scale in c minor i had no idea
and he said that's great and what he was
doing he was describing
what i was playing but i had listened
loved it and repeated what's interesting
is that then i began to get curious
about the names and the rules and the
order and it actually started to help me
and i think it's the same with language
right what we should do is start by
listening loving repeating and then get
curious
find out the names the labels the rules
and that can help us and that's exactly
what i did when i learned spanish and
when i learned chinese
i began with the language and
doing it loving it repeating it and then
bit by bit
learning the labels and the rules and i
think that's the way to do it and that's
the way to think about it
so for me grammar always comes second
it's a kind of a way of clarifying um
rather than a basis for learning
with this in mind i offer you this
lesson coming up now basic grammar
i imagine most of you are beyond
beginner level otherwise you wouldn't
really understand me
so use this as a way of kind of
getting clear about the grammar
reviewing it getting curious about the
rules
and use it as something to help you move
along
not as a starting point
great let's get into it
okay so we're going to look at well
eight of the most important parts of
speech right speaking
and these include
verbs
adverbs
nouns
articles adjectives pronouns
prepositions and conjunctions omg
now you may be thinking that's a lot
keith
yes it is but don't worry you don't have
to be stuck in the classroom with me
this is youtube right you can go down to
the description and there's a timestamp
and you can click on the part that is
most interesting or useful for you and
just watch that you don't have to watch
the whole video
you can but you don't have to
okay i'm going to begin with verbs
so what are verbs simply verbs are doing
words they describe actions that we do
right like
drive
spanish roundabout
always fun and games
cook
lose
where's my pen
also they can describe states of being
like be
or seem
okay
the most important thing about verbs is
they can describe actions in the present
in the past and in the future different
tenses
so in the present we can say
i'm cooking a soup
or we can talk about a present habit for
example and say i usually cook on
sundays
and one of the most important things to
remember because we don't really
conjugate verbs in english it's i cook
you cook they cook we cook we all cook
however
he
she and it
cooks
you must add an s
when you're talking about another person
he or she or a thing
it's the dog
so at the s now you're saying of course
i know that keith but when you're
speaking
lots of students at a high level forget
the s
yes he cook a lot no he cooks a lot so
you need to practice a lot
speaking out the s
and the thing is there are three
different pronunciations
there's
is
depending on the word right
she drives
he cooks
he
loses so be careful about the
pronunciation especially when speaking
especially when speaking
only when speaking
now when we talk about the past
verbs can be regular which means they're
all the same or irregular means they a
bit different right now
the regular past you just add e d
but again when you're speaking that can
be three different sounds it can be
depending on the verb
so you may have for example i cooked
yesterday
i washed my face
i wanted to go to the cinema
so be careful on the pronunciation
if it's not regular then it's irregular
and they're all different and you just
have to learn them there are about 200
irregular verbs in english and in my
free pdf you can see the most important
ones for you at a beginner
intermediate level an example might be
drive i drove yesterday
a final interesting thing about verbs is
that they can become a noun very easily
if you add ing right cook
cooking
cooking becomes a noun
i like cooking or cooking is fun
driving is dangerous
it becomes a noun great
that's it let's move on
next up adverbs
now adverbs
tell you
how you do something
right so if you drive
how do you drive i drive quickly
i drive safely they tell me how i do
something so they describe the verb
normally they they're easy to make right
you would take an adjective like quick
and you add l y
quickly
or safe
safely
and normally usually the adverb comes
after
the verb
i drive quickly
i drive safely
if there is a thing
right i read books
then the adverb will come after the
thing or after the object
i read books slowly
now in a similar way to verbs adverbs
can also be regular or irregular
99 of them are regular
phew great but there are a handful maybe
five or six which are irregular
so instead of taking the adjective and
adding l y you have a different word
most common one is
good well
so we don't say i cook goodly
no i cook well
and the others are quite easy because a
lot of them are the same as the
adjective and the adverb like fast fast
hard hard late late
right
i drive fast i play hard i arrived late
so these are quite easy to remember
in addition to talking about how you do
something
we can talk about the time when you do
it and how often you do it
and we use adverbs for this right for
example i drive carefully we said i
always drive carefully always tells us
how often i do it
and that adverb normally goes in between
the subject and the verb the person and
the doing word i
always drive
carefully i always drive my car
i don't let any tom dick or harry drive
my car
the most common adverbs here are a
frequency are sometimes
always rarely hardly ever never
others are things like now and again
from time to time once in a blue moon
meaning
very rarely
when you have more than one word it's
usually called an adverbial
and this can go
either at the beginning
or at the end of the sentence
so you may say well once in a blue moon
um i
drive my wife's car
or i drive my wife's car once in a blue
moon
at the beginning or at the end
a final note is that adverbs actually
can also describe adjectives oh yes how
interesting more about that later
let's move on now to talk about nouns
right next nouns
so nouns are
things
like
piano
pen
book
or
people
like friend
teacher
colleague
or places
like classroom
city kitchen
notice if you take things like
friend or city and you actually use the
name like jack and manchester it's still
a noun but we call that a proper noun i
don't know why a proper noun
and if you're writing it it has a
capital letter
but not when you're speaking it
obviously
now the thing about nouns right
is that you can either have one
or
more than one
singular one or plural more than one
three four two three four five six and
so on when you make a noun into a plural
then you know this right you add an s or
an e s
but be careful when speaking because to
make a noun into a plural when speaking
you either add
well there are three sounds right
there's
is
for example
books
cars
boxes
so depending on the
last sound of the noun it will tell you
which sound to make at the end
another important thing about nouns is
that you can count them
a pen
two pens
three pens
so you can count
nouns however you can't count
all nouns some of them are uncountable
things like liquids or powders
for example water you can't count water
or coffee you can't count coffee
grammatically
so what we can do is we can use a trick
to count right we can say
a glass of water
or a cup of coffee
rice you can't count rice
grammatically but you can say a grain of
rice or a bowl of rice
so these are the tricks we use to make
them countable
the most or some of the most common
uncountable nouns that
are probably countable in your language
so can be confusing things like
furniture
information
news advice they're uncountable
so you cannot make a plural you can't
say furnitures
no you have to say furniture you can
save five pieces of furniture
right if you want to make it countable
likewise pieces of advice
some pieces of news
pieces of information if you want to
make them countable
the final thing to mention about nouns
is that
they're not only single words
they can also be several words and that
we would call a noun phrase logical
right noun phrase
now phrases it's interesting to be aware
of this
because when you're listening it will
help you mark the boundaries between the
noun phrase the verb
adjective and other parts of speech
so for example if i say
the pen in my hand is black
the pen in my hand
that's the noun phrase is verb black
so it's a longer phrase
it's useful because when you're
listening
you want to be listening for the verb
and then go back
for example
the woman with blonde hair and glasses
is from london
is from london that's the verb is
everything before then is a noun phrase
the woman with blonde hair and glasses
that's the noun phrase so as you're
listening it's really can really help
your listening comprehension to be aware
that the noun is not just one word it
can be a phrase
okay let's move on
next up i'm going to talk about articles
and three kinds of articles we'll talk
about the first one is
and you'll notice
hopefully when i talked about nouns i
said pen book
but of course we usually say a pen
a blue pen a black pen
a book
if a noun begins with a vowel sound like
elephant or apple
then we say an
and when you're speaking link an
elephant
an apple
and people go napple what's napple no an
apple because you're linking an elephant
do notice
with plurals
like dogs we don't use
a
right i love dogs
i like cats
also with uncountable nouns we don't use
a or
i need information
okay
the second kind is
the
and this is when we
basically
are referring to a specific noun and
it's where you know
which one i mean
right
can you pass me the blue pen
we can see the blue pen we both know
which one i mean
that's when we use the
the third kind is what is called
demonstrative articles
because they kind of demonstrate where
the thing is
this and that
so for example this pen is blue
that pen
is black
this is close that is far
some students ask me what's the distance
when it goes from this to that one meter
two meters
it's not about distance it's about
feeling
right if you say that you're creating
the feeling of distance so it's all
relative
and it's it's not only physical distance
it can be time distance right this story
i'm going to tell you is very
interesting
this story now
that story you told me yesterday was
interesting
that story in the past right okay so
it's also a time distance
singular this
plural these
you have to smile a lot these
singular that
plural those
oh
those
great let's move on
next up adjectives so adjectives can
describe nouns
right
for example we had
a book
an interesting book
notice
the ah
from book becomes an because of the
adjective beginning with a vowel sound
an interesting book
actually it's an exciting book
um
a delicious chocolate
hmm
a refreshing drink
um it's the great thing about youtube
teaching
you can stuff yourself with chocolates
in the classroom
and notice the adjective comes before
the noun
a refreshing drink a refreshing drink
when learning adjectives i think it's
also a very good idea to learn the
antonyms at the same time
so an antonym
is a word with the opposite
meaning
for example big small
when you learn big learn small
when you learn
thick
a thick book
a thin book
learn the antonyms
great and we can also use adverbs to
describe adjectives
adverbs like really absolutely totally
completely okay for example
this is an exciting book
this is a really exciting book
oh
that
was an absolutely delicious chocolate
great let's move on
so thank you for watching so far um i
thought we should have a break maybe
have a refreshing drink because you've
been seeing so much new grammar now then
knowing grammar is one thing but what
happens when you speak
sometimes you forget you make mistakes
and that is absolutely normal it's fine
it's part of the learning process right
now the thing is i
always suggest start listening
then loving and then repeating
and then you can start reviewing the
grammar like in this video and
practicing more
practicing is great you can practice on
your own you can also practice with
somebody else and if you can get
feedback on your speaking
even better
a great place to do that i think is
cambly
cambly is an online platform where you
can find native english speaking
teachers who can help you with your
english
it's great right you can choose the
teacher that you want to match your
needs
you can decide on the time and you can
find cambly tutors 24 7 around the clock
you choose the content of your class and
you can also watch the recording so you
can review there are lots of packages
available you can find one to suit you
and because cambly are sponsoring this
video thank you kimberly then there are
discounts for you
first of all if you're a first time user
you can get a 50 minute free lesson
which is great to find out if cambly is
right for you and then if you get a 12
month plan you can get a 40
discount
12 months is great because it's a long
term investment in your english and
improving your english language
that's it cambly you can check out the
link below below the video um it will
take you to the website find out if it's
right for you and then start practicing
with cambly
great we're gonna go back now
to the refreshing drink and a bit more
grammar
next let's talk about pronouns
as you can probably guess they replace
nouns remember people places things
and also they replace noun phrases do
you remember the woman with blonde hair
and glasses
the noun phrase
we use them
really to avoid repetition
right because you could say your car is
lovely she likes your car
but it's a bit repetitious
it would be better to say your car is
lovely she likes it
there are different kinds of pronouns
first of all subject pronouns where the
pronoun replaces the noun that is a
subject for example jack is a subject
jack ate the chocolate
the pronoun would be he ate the
chocolate the other pronouns
i ate the chocolate
it was mine
you ate the chocolate
he she it ate the chocolate or we
ate the chocolate you plural ate the
chocolate all of you or they ate the
chocolate
secondly we've got object pronouns and
this is where the pronoun replaces a
noun that is an object for example she
likes keith keith is the object of her
liking she likes keith pronoun for keith
is she likes him
or she likes me
the other pronouns she likes you
she likes him she likes her she likes it
she likes us
she likes you
all of you she likes them
object pronouns
thirdly we've got possessive pronouns
and this is where the pronoun
is is a possession for example
my hat
right
my we can replace or my hat we replace
with it's mine
your hat it's yours
his hat
it's his
her hat it's hers
our hat it's ours
their hat it's theirs
notice of course
with
it's mine
there is no noun because you're
replacing the noun with the possessive
pronoun
great let's move on
next we're going to talk about
prepositions my oh my
now prepositions are challenging because
often they don't translate the same into
your language and we use them
differently
so if you translate word for word you're
probably going to make lots of mistakes
with prepositions
much more useful is to try and
get the feeling of the preposition and
what native speakers
feel it represents or it means
i'm going to try and do that with you
today with three prepositions i'm not
going to give you a big list of
prepositions and a list of all the
different uses
that would be a waste of time you
wouldn't use it you wouldn't follow it
it wouldn't help you
let's just try and zone in on three
prepositions and give you a bit of a
feeling of how we use them i've chosen
at on
in
because i think these are three of the
most important and most challenging ones
and also they are quite closely
connected
so let's have a go wish me luck i wish
you luck
at
is used that the feeling of a specific
point a specific place or time right
i live at 221 baker street really
it's a specific point right a specific
house
i get up at six o'clock in the morning a
specific time
also at has the idea if you like of a
space or a bubble
if you imagine um
for example i'm at home
the idea of a feeling of a bubble or a
space that you're in that bubble so at
home you don't know if i'm in the
kitchen in the bathroom
in the study in the lounge
but i'm in that bubble right i'm at home
likewise at work
but you don't know exactly if i'm at my
desk in the toilet in the office
at the beach
right am i on the sand in the water
in the coffee bar
at the beach
um at the cinema at the shops idea of a
bubble right
next
on
can represent more
well kind of touching a surface
or a platform
generally speaking talking about places
right
on the table the cup is on the table
it's a surface
on the wall there's a picture on the
wall
um
on baker street i live on baker street
you're on
the surface of the street
platforms well i'm on the internet
i'm on the phone i'm on facebook
they're all kind of platforms that
you're on
time
on monday
days of the week on monday on tuesday on
the 5th of january which is also a day
so again it's the idea of being
on a kind of a platform if you think of
all the days of the month as a platform
you're on one day i'm on monday i
i'm not on monday
i work on monday i don't work on sunday
next in in has the idea of being
contained in a container like in a box
clear right
in manchester think of the city as a
container you're inside i'm in
manchester i'm in the car get in the car
okay
with time
in july
in august so think of the the month
um there's a number of days and you're
contained in that so in july could be
one day in the month
in summer
idea of contained in the in the season
and also in 2021
right um the idea of being
in the year there are many different
parts of the year or months of the year
so
at on in there is a connection between
them and i'd like to show it like this
being at being very specific on being
bigger and in being even bigger let me
show you some examples right
at six o'clock
very specific
on monday
bigger in july
bigger
he lives at 221 baker street at very
specific he lives on baker street bigger
he lives in london even bigger at on
in
think of it like that
i hope this helps you
get a bit of a feeling
for the different prepositions i should
do a whole video about prepositions and
the feelings
let me work on that for now let's move
on
last but not least conjunctions
conjunctions are words like and or
but
so because
and these are words we use to join
other words phrases and even clauses
they're very very useful and they
actually as you use them they help you
build up longer sentences which helps
build your fluency
for example right we could say he eats a
lot
he is fat
two
sentences two clauses
um we can use a conjunction
different ones to connect them right he
eats a lot so he is fat
he eats a lot because he is fat
he eats a lot
and he is fat
you see there are different
possibilities the good thing to know as
a beginner is that in spoken english we
mostly use very simple conjunctions
there are more complex ones you can
learn as you go on but if you can master
using the basic simple ones
these are what we normally use when
we're speaking
but as i said
practice building up
your
sentences using conjunctions
and that really gives you more complex
sentences if you're studying for ielts
you'll know complex grammar is very
important this is a great first step to
mastering just joining your clauses
together
over a longer sentence
excellent that's it
let's see how well you have learnt
we're going to move on to a little quiz
right in this quiz we've got five quick
fire questions you need to say if the
phrase is grammatically correct or
incorrect
um and then think about why
if you like you can put your answers in
the comments below let's do question
number one
i think cook is fun
it's incorrect right because cook is a
verb but here
it's the subject of the sentence it must
be a noun i think cooking is fun
question number two
i read slowly books
it's incorrect right it should be i read
books slowly the adverb comes after the
verb but if there's an object a direct
object books
then the adverb comes after the object i
read books slowly
number three
i bought three furnitures
it's incorrect again because furnitures
is an uncountable noun you cannot count
it or them
you must say i bought three pieces of
furniture
number four
i love cats
yes it's correct well done cats as a
plural does not take a or an
or the
i love cats
final question number five
the hat is mine hat
right it's incorrect okay it should be
that hat is mine
because mine is the possessive pronoun
replacing hat so you don't need to say
hat again
right great
well done how did you do how many did
you get correct tell me in the comments
down below and also tell me about any
other
grammar that you find difficult or
challenging
and i can make a video about that in the
future
so listen if you've enjoyed this video
please do subscribe and turn on the
notifications
i hope this can has made grammar a
little bit easier for you um especially
the basic grammar to give you a basic
understanding remember my philosophy
listen to english
love it
repeat it
and then practice as well and of course
if you want to practice go and check out
cambly where you can practice with
native english speakers
choosing the teacher of your choice
if you want to try it you can do a 15
minute class for free
and then you can if you choose a 12
month package you can get a 40
discount just use the code new keith
when you sign up
that's it great most of all have fun
when you're studying and learning and
growing into
a more confident english speaker
and i look forward to seeing you very
very soon
in the next video take care my friend
bye
[Music]